CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

We'll be glad to accept patches and contributions to the project. There are
just few guidelines we ask to follow.

Contribution license Agreement
==============================

If you want/plan to contribute, we ask you to sign a
[CLA](https://cla.microsoft.com/) (Contribution license Agreement).
A friendly bot will remind you about it when you submit a pull-request.

Submitting a contribution
=========================

It's generally best to start by
[opening a new issue](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue)
describing the work you intend to submit. Even for minor tasks, it's helpful
to know what contributors are working on. Please mention in the initial issue
that you are planning to work on it, so that it can be assigned to you.

Follow the usual GitHub flow process of
[forking the project](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo),
and setup a new branch to work in. Each group of changes should be done in
separate branches, in order to ensure that a pull request only
includes the changes related to one issue.

Any significant change should almost always be accompanied by tests. Look at
the existing tests to see the testing approach and style used.

Follow the project coding style, to ensure consistency and quick code reviews.
For more information about the development workflow, have a look at
[the development notes](DEVELOPMENT.md).

Do your best to have clear commit messages for each change, in order to keep
consistency throughout the project. Reference the issue number (#num). A good
commit message serves at least these purposes:
* Speed up the pull request review process
* Help future developers to understand the purpose of your code
* Help the maintainer write release notes

One-line messages are fine for small changes, but bigger changes should look
like this:
```
$ git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit
>
> A paragraph describing what changed and its impact."
```

Finally, push the commits to your fork, submit a pull request and follow the
code review progress. The team might ask for some
[changes](https://help.github.com/articles/committing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork)
before merging the pull request.

Commit message:

Upgrade project PlayFramework/Scala/libs   (#11)
Upgrade Play Framework from 2.5 to 2.6
Upgrade from Scala 2.11 to Scala 2.12
Merge sandbox scripts with non-sandbox ones, use "-s" or "--in-sandbox"* CLI param instead
Move sandbox cache outside of the project and share it with other projects
Fix port mapping
Fix Git aliases, now created by the setup script
Many doc improvements
Add docker compose file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

We'll be glad to accept patches and contributions to the project. There are
just few guidelines we ask to follow.

Contribution license Agreement
==============================

If you want/plan to contribute, we ask you to sign a
[CLA](https://cla.microsoft.com/) (Contribution license Agreement).
A friendly bot will remind you about it when you submit a pull-request.

Submitting a contribution
=========================

It's generally best to start by
[opening a new issue](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-issue)
describing the work you intend to submit. Even for minor tasks, it's helpful
to know what contributors are working on. Please mention in the initial issue
that you are planning to work on it, so that it can be assigned to you.

Follow the usual GitHub flow process of
[forking the project](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo),
and setup a new branch to work in. Each group of changes should be done in
separate branches, in order to ensure that a pull request only
includes the changes related to one issue.

Any significant change should almost always be accompanied by tests. Look at
the existing tests to see the testing approach and style used.

Follow the project coding style, to ensure consistency and quick code reviews.
For more information about the development workflow, have a look at
[the development notes](DEVELOPMENT.md).

Do your best to have clear commit messages for each change, in order to keep
consistency throughout the project. Reference the issue number (#num). A good
commit message serves at least these purposes:
* Speed up the pull request review process
* Help future developers to understand the purpose of your code
* Help the maintainer write release notes

One-line messages are fine for small changes, but bigger changes should look
like this:
```
$ git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit
>
> A paragraph describing what changed and its impact."
```

Finally, push the commits to your fork, submit a pull request, wait for the
automated feedback from Travis CI, and follow the code review progress. The
team might ask for some
[changes](https://help.github.com/articles/committing-changes-to-a-pull-request-branch-created-from-a-fork)
before merging the pull request.
