README.md, before:

[![Build][build-badge]][build-url]
[![Issues][issues-badge]][issues-url]
[![Gitter][gitter-badge]][gitter-url]

Storage Adapter Overview
========================
This service allows management of key-values, abstracting the storage
service semantic and presenting a simple interface to store data of any
format using [Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cosmos-db/).
DocDb is used in the service but could be easily swapped with a different
store.

Values are organized in collections, it is possible to work with individual
values and entire collections. Complex data structures are serialized by
clients and managed as a simple text payload.

The service provides a RESTful endpoint to Create-Read-Update-Delete values,
where each value has a unique Id referenced also as "Key", supporting
concurrency.

IDs can be provided by the client or automatically generated by the service
(i.e. UUIDs).

Dependencies
============
* [Azure Cosmos DB account](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.DocumentDB)
  with API type DocumentDB

How to use the microservice
===========================
## Quickstart - Running the service with Docker

1. Install Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation
2. Create your
   [Azure Cosmos DB account](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.DocumentDB)
   with API type **DocumentDB**
3. Find your Azure Cosmos DB account connection string.  See 
   [Update your Connection Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/create-documentdb-dotnet#update-your-connection-string)
   if you need help finding it.
4. Store the "Azure Cosmos DB account connection string" in the
   [env-vars-setup](scripts) script, then run the script.
5. Run the Storage Adapter service using the Docker
   [run](scripts/docker).
6. Use an HTTP client such as [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com),
   to exercise the
   [RESTful API](https://github.com/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-java/wiki/API-specs#create-key-value-with-post-id-generated-by-the-service)
   to create a collection.

## Running the service with IntelliJ

Intellij IDEA lets you open the application without using a command
prompt, without configuring anything outside of the IDE. The SBT build tool
takes care of downloading appropriate libraries, resolving dependencies and
building the project (more info [here](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.6.x/IDE)).

Steps using IntelliJ IDEA Community 2017, with SBT plugin enabled:

* "Open" the project with IntelliJ, the IDE should automatically recognize
  the SBT structure. Wait for the IDE to download some dependencies
  (see IntelliJ status bar). This may take a while, hang in there!
* Create a new Run Configuration, of type "SBT Task", with any name.
  * Enter "run 9022" (including the double quotes) in Tasks. This ensures that
    the service starts using the TCP port 9022.  If you desire to use a
    different port, feel free to change it.
  * Define the following environment variable:
    1. `PCS_STORAGEADAPTER_DOCUMENTDB_CONNSTRING` = {your CosmosDb DocumentDb connection string}
* Either from the toolbar or the Run menu, execute the configuration just
  created, using the Debug command/button
* Test that the service is up and running pointing your browser to
  http://127.0.0.1:9022/v1/status

And as a nice extra: if you edit the code, you don't need to stop/build/restart
the application. Play and SBT automatically recompile the files modified on the
fly. You can also see the re-build log in the Run Tool Window.

### Run and Debug with Eclipse

The integration with Eclipse requires the

[sbteclipse plugin](https://github.com/typesafehub/sbteclipse), already
included, and an initial setup via command line (more info
[here](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.6.x/IDE)).

Steps using Eclipse Oxygen ("Eclipse for Java Developers" package):

* Open a console (either Bash or Windows CMD), move into the project folder,
  execute `sbt compile` and then `sbt eclipse`. This generates some files
  required by Eclipse to recognize the project.
* Open Eclipse, and from the Welcome screen "Import" an existing project,
  navigating to the root folder of the project.
* From the console run `sbt -jvm-debug 9999 "run 900X"` to start the project
* Test that the service is up and running pointing your browser to
  http://127.0.0.1:900X/v1/status
* In Eclipse, select "Run -> Debug Configurations" and add a "Remote Java
  Application", using "localhost" and port "9999".
* After saving this configuration, you can click "Debug" to connect to the
  running application.


## Project Structure
This microservice contains the following projects:

    --todo--

## Build and Run from the command line

The [scripts](scripts) folder contains scripts for many frequent tasks:

* `build`: compile all the projects and run the tests.
* `compile`: compile all the projects.
* `run`: compile the projects and run the service. This will prompt for
  elevated privileges in Windows to run the web service.

## Updating the Docker image

The `scripts` folder includes a [docker](scripts/docker) subfolder with the files
required to package the service into a Docker image:

* `Dockerfile`: docker images specifications
* `build`: build a Docker container and store the image in the local registry
* `run`: run the Docker container from the image stored in the local registry
* `content`: a folder with files copied into the image, including the entry
  point script

## Configuration and Environment variables

The service configuration is stored using Akka's
[HOCON](https://github.com/typesafehub/config/blob/master/HOCON.md)
format in [application.conf](conf/application.conf).

The HOCON format is a human readable format, very close to JSON, with some
useful features:

* Ability to write comments
* Support for substitutions, e.g. referencing environment variables
* Supports JSON notation

The configuration file in the repository references some environment
variables that need to created at least once. Depending on your OS and
the IDE, there are several ways to manage environment variables:

* For Windows users, the [env-vars-setup.cmd](scripts/env-vars-setup.cmd)
  script needs to be prepared and executed just once. When executed, the
  settings will persist across terminal sessions and reboots.
* For Linux and OSX environments, the [env-vars-setup](scripts/env-vars-setup)
  script needs to be executed every time a new console is opened.
  Depending on the OS and terminal, there are ways to persist values
  globally, for more information these pages should help:
  * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13046624/how-to-permanently-export-a-variable-in-linux
  * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135688/setting-environment-variables-in-os-x
  * https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnvironmentVariables
* IntelliJ IDEA: env. vars can be set in each Run Configuration, see
  https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/run-debug-configuration-application.html


Contributing to the solution
============================
Please follow our [contribution guildelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).  We love PRs too.

Troubleshooting
===============

Feedback
========
Please enter issues, bugs, or suggestions as GitHub Issues here: https://github.com/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-java/issues.

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/travis/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet.svg
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.org/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet
[issues-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet.svg
[issues-url]: https://github.com/azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet/issues
[gitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/azure/iot-solutions.js.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/azure/iot-solutions

Commit message:

ARM template and guide to help create a Cosmos DB instance for development purposes

README.md, after:

[![Build][build-badge]][build-url]
[![Issues][issues-badge]][issues-url]
[![Gitter][gitter-badge]][gitter-url]

Storage Adapter Overview
========================
This service allows management of key-values, abstracting the storage
service semantic and presenting a simple interface to store data of any
format using [Azure Cosmos DB](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cosmos-db/).
DocDb is used in the service but could be easily swapped with a different
store.

Values are organized in collections, it is possible to work with individual
values and entire collections. Complex data structures are serialized by
clients and managed as a simple text payload.

The service provides a RESTful endpoint to Create-Read-Update-Delete values,
where each value has a unique Id referenced also as "Key", supporting
concurrency.

IDs can be provided by the client or automatically generated by the service
(i.e. UUIDs).

Dependencies
============
* [Azure Cosmos DB account](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.DocumentDB)
  with API type DocumentDB

## Provisioning a Cosmos DB instance for development via an ARM template with Azure CLI 2.0

This repository contains an 
[ARM template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-authoring-templates) 
that provisions a Cosmos DB instance with 
[Strong](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/consistency-levels)
consistency in the West US region.
If you're developing this storage adapter on a daily basis and have limited Azure credits 
on a dev / sandbox subscription, you may want to provision a Cosmos DB instance only when 
development work starts for the day and deprovision it when you're done. This is made easier
with this template and 
[Azure CLI 2.0](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/overview?view=azure-cli-latest). 
To provision:

```
cd .\scripts\armtemplates\dev
az login
az group create --name ExampleGroup --location "West US"
az group deployment create --name ExampleDeployment --resource-group ExampleGroup --template-file template.json --parameters parameters.json
```

To deprovision:

```
az group delete -n ExampleGroup 
```

How to use the microservice
===========================
## Quickstart - Running the service with Docker

1. Install Docker: https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation
2. Create your
   [Azure Cosmos DB account](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.DocumentDB)
   with API type **DocumentDB**
3. Find your Azure Cosmos DB account connection string.  See 
   [Update your Connection Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/create-documentdb-dotnet#update-your-connection-string)
   if you need help finding it.
4. Store the "Azure Cosmos DB account connection string" in the
   [env-vars-setup](scripts) script, then run the script.
5. Run the Storage Adapter service using the Docker
   [run](scripts/docker).
6. Use an HTTP client such as [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com),
   to exercise the
   [RESTful API](https://github.com/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-java/wiki/API-specs#create-key-value-with-post-id-generated-by-the-service)
   to create a collection.

## Running the service with IntelliJ

Intellij IDEA lets you open the application without using a command
prompt, without configuring anything outside of the IDE. The SBT build tool
takes care of downloading appropriate libraries, resolving dependencies and
building the project (more info [here](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.6.x/IDE)).

Steps using IntelliJ IDEA Community 2017, with SBT plugin enabled:

* "Open" the project with IntelliJ, the IDE should automatically recognize
  the SBT structure. Wait for the IDE to download some dependencies
  (see IntelliJ status bar). This may take a while, hang in there!
* Create a new Run Configuration, of type "SBT Task", with any name.
  * Enter "run 9022" (including the double quotes) in Tasks. This ensures that
    the service starts using the TCP port 9022.  If you desire to use a
    different port, feel free to change it.
  * Define the following environment variable:
    1. `PCS_STORAGEADAPTER_DOCUMENTDB_CONNSTRING` = {your CosmosDb DocumentDb connection string}
* Either from the toolbar or the Run menu, execute the configuration just
  created, using the Debug command/button
* Test that the service is up and running pointing your browser to
  http://127.0.0.1:9022/v1/status

And as a nice extra: if you edit the code, you don't need to stop/build/restart
the application. Play and SBT automatically recompile the files modified on the
fly. You can also see the re-build log in the Run Tool Window.

### Run and Debug with Eclipse

The integration with Eclipse requires the

[sbteclipse plugin](https://github.com/typesafehub/sbteclipse), already
included, and an initial setup via command line (more info
[here](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.6.x/IDE)).

Steps using Eclipse Oxygen ("Eclipse for Java Developers" package):

* Open a console (either Bash or Windows CMD), move into the project folder,
  execute `sbt compile` and then `sbt eclipse`. This generates some files
  required by Eclipse to recognize the project.
* Open Eclipse, and from the Welcome screen "Import" an existing project,
  navigating to the root folder of the project.
* From the console run `sbt -jvm-debug 9999 "run 900X"` to start the project
* Test that the service is up and running pointing your browser to
  http://127.0.0.1:900X/v1/status
* In Eclipse, select "Run -> Debug Configurations" and add a "Remote Java
  Application", using "localhost" and port "9999".
* After saving this configuration, you can click "Debug" to connect to the
  running application.


## Project Structure
This microservice contains the following projects:

    --todo--

## Build and Run from the command line

The [scripts](scripts) folder contains scripts for many frequent tasks:

* `build`: compile all the projects and run the tests.
* `compile`: compile all the projects.
* `run`: compile the projects and run the service. This will prompt for
  elevated privileges in Windows to run the web service.

## Updating the Docker image

The `scripts` folder includes a [docker](scripts/docker) subfolder with the files
required to package the service into a Docker image:

* `Dockerfile`: docker images specifications
* `build`: build a Docker container and store the image in the local registry
* `run`: run the Docker container from the image stored in the local registry
* `content`: a folder with files copied into the image, including the entry
  point script

## Configuration and Environment variables

The service configuration is stored using Akka's
[HOCON](https://github.com/typesafehub/config/blob/master/HOCON.md)
format in [application.conf](conf/application.conf).

The HOCON format is a human readable format, very close to JSON, with some
useful features:

* Ability to write comments
* Support for substitutions, e.g. referencing environment variables
* Supports JSON notation

The configuration file in the repository references some environment
variables that need to created at least once. Depending on your OS and
the IDE, there are several ways to manage environment variables:

* For Windows users, the [env-vars-setup.cmd](scripts/env-vars-setup.cmd)
  script needs to be prepared and executed just once. When executed, the
  settings will persist across terminal sessions and reboots.
* For Linux and OSX environments, the [env-vars-setup](scripts/env-vars-setup)
  script needs to be executed every time a new console is opened.
  Depending on the OS and terminal, there are ways to persist values
  globally, for more information these pages should help:
  * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13046624/how-to-permanently-export-a-variable-in-linux
  * https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135688/setting-environment-variables-in-os-x
  * https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnvironmentVariables
* IntelliJ IDEA: env. vars can be set in each Run Configuration, see
  https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/run-debug-configuration-application.html


Contributing to the solution
============================
Please follow our [contribution guildelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).  We love PRs too.

Troubleshooting
===============

Feedback
========
Please enter issues, bugs, or suggestions as GitHub Issues here: https://github.com/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-java/issues.

[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/travis/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet.svg
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.org/Azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet
[issues-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet.svg
[issues-url]: https://github.com/azure/pcs-storage-adapter-dotnet/issues
[gitter-badge]: https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/azure/iot-solutions.js.svg
[gitter-url]: https://gitter.im/azure/iot-solutions
